Finally let's finish off our talk with front end performance optimizations with progressive web apps.
So what is a progressive web app well a web app is a Web site that allows the users to interact with
the web page in many ways however whether it is a gay Twitter or Facebook it is inside of a browser
window such as chrome safari Firefox a native app on the other hand is an app that is on a mobile phone
like an iPhone or a Samsung.
That's what native means.
It's meant to work on a native platform like a mobile phone.
So do you ever wish that web apps that live inside of browsers behave more like real apps on your phone.
Well progressive web apps are a new technology that's aiming to make that happen just like your apps
on your phone.
We want the user to have similar experience when visiting the Web.
But first let's talk about the differences between the two
to create a web app.
All you need to know is some HMO CSX and JavaScript and you're good to go to create a native app that
is a mobile phone app.
You need to learn a native language like Java for Android apps or objective c and swift for IOW apps
unlike viewing on the browser native apps have all the files they need on the user's mobile phone.
For example if you go into your phone and go through your apps you can see how big some of those phone
apps are by looking at their file size and that's because unlike the server client relationship that
a web app has what has to go through request AML and finally get the CSX and the JavaScript files.
You can download native apps and have them on your phone.
The files just living on your phone the only thing you can really do with a web app is maybe bookmark
a Web site additionally native apps can send you push notifications they can even work on flight and
you're never going to get a blank screen.
For example
if we go to get hub and I have my Wi-Fi turned off if I ever refresh the page well I get this little
dinosaur icon saying there is no Internet connection.
You've never seen that on a native app.
Have you because native apps are built to work offline maybe not have full functionality off line but
still work and not get a blank screen
finally with mobile apps or native apps you can find them to download in places like the App Store or
the Google Play store.
You can't really do that with web apps.
Oh and I almost forgot.
With native apps they also have access to the phone hardware like the camera geo location push notifications
All right.
I hope you get the point right now are mobile apps and our web apps are not really the same thing and
mobile apps tend to work nicer than web apps on phones and this is where progressive web apps come in.
You can now make web apps behave like native apps.
What do I mean well with progressive web apps you can make your browser not have that top U.R.L. bar
so that the entire app covers the screen and looks like a mobile app you can download them on your phone
and have a app icon on your phone home screen.
They can work offline.
They can send push notifications on your phone.
And they also work a lot faster just like on phones a lot more than regular web apps because they're
designed with mobile in mind.
And there are a few other features of progressive web apps all in a goal to make them a similar as possible
to native so think of progressive web apps as web apps but they behave more like native apps.
Don't worry it's a lot easier to implement than you think.
Like existing web apps they'll be hosted directly on their associated Web site.
Developers can update them directly on their web server by deploying or updating their github if it's
hosted on GitHub pages without submitting those updates to several different app stores because to update
an app on the OS app store you have to submit those changes and get those approved by Apple with a progressive
web app.
You don't really need to do that and the best part of all that same app is going to run on all browser
platforms.
That is if the phone is using Safari it's going to work on safari it's going to work on Firefox is going
to work on Chrome and you don't have to worry about it being built for Android or ISIS or even windows
all right.
So what's the goal of all of this while obviously better user experience a faster Web sites and we already
know how important this is from our previous videos.
Many people are really excited about progressive web apps and although it's fairly new it's catching
on fast.
And best of all with new HCM all five APIs we're starting to get more and more access to foreign hardware
that only native apps used to have if you go to what we can do.
Dot Today Web site it shows you what you can do and a web platform when you're building your app and
you see that we can do notifications we can do audio and video capture.
We can do geo location so we're starting to get more and more power with our web apps now here's an
interesting thing.
Who do you think came up with the idea of progressive web apps.
Give up.
It was Google Now who do you think is the slowest in supporting this idea of progressive web apps give
up its Apple because the goal is to make Web feel like an app and you can look at the companies and
their interests and see why they would have this stance.
Google for example has a big market share in the Web they're interested in their Chrome browser and
their Google dot com search results to be used as often as possible.
While Apple has their closed ecosystem of the App Store and if you want to build an app Well you have
to build it the way that Apple wants it.
Using objective c or swift and using their developer platform X code and submitting to their app store
to have an app so Apple is interested in keeping their dominance of apps on their phones while Google
is interested in keeping their dominance on the Web.
And it's always good to think about these things when looking at technologies developed by these big
companies.
It's often usually out of self-interest.
I know that sounds pessimistic but it is true although it benefits us.
It's good to understand the overarching goals Facebook for example has something called React Native
and just like we learned react react native is a way to build apps that work just like native apps.
So using react you can now build AOS and Android apps all with pretty much 90 percent of the code being
shared between those two platforms.
Anyway let's get back on track now.
There is a constant battle with this as chrome has adopted this progressive web app stance and apple
that has the Safari browser has been really lagging in adopting these technologies.
But anyway this is a cost them battle and as with everything that I've mentioned so far we don't want
to pick a technology just because it's hip and cool and it's low.
Latest craze we want to make sure that it adds value to our project now progressive web apps are going
to evolve over time but the main takeaway is this progressive web apps do enhance the experience of
our users even if it isn't everyone like people with us.
If it is easy to implement then we should consider it though because adding it to our project even if
it helps just a few people it still is beneficial and as time progresses hopefully more and more adoption
happens and this is exactly why create react app already comes preset with progressive web app capabilities
Yep you heard me right.
They do it out of the box for you once again create react app helps out a ton here with a little few
tweaks that I'm going to show you in the upcoming package sizes we can have a progressive web app pretty
fast so I argue that because it is so easy it's already setup and create react app we should implement
progressive web apps abilities because it makes the user experience better and definitely improved performance
but how can we make our robo friends app into a progressive web app.
I mean remember that's what Bruno asked us to do.
Luckily for us Google has created something called Lighthouse and this lighthouse is a plug in a Chrome
plugin that we can just install.
You can see it over here I already have it installed and run it on any Web site and it'll tell us some
performance metrics and also how close we are to that progressive web app.
And I have here for us our robo friends app with redux already setup and I have a link to the Web site
because while we need an actual you are out.
So if I click on this I can go to Lighthouse plug in and say generate report and this is going to generate
for us different reports.
It's going to turn the app offline and then online again to see if it has any offline capabilities.
It's going to check it if it has any of the features that a progressive web app will have.
And we get a report back and as you can see it gives us a few extra things like MCO best practices accessibility
which we're going to talk about and also performance but the number that we're interested in is this
progressive web app number.
We see that although we haven't done anything.
We have 82 percent.
I mean it's green.
That's good right.
If we scroll down to the progressive Web app it even tells you what we can do to fix this.
Now how do we have 82 percent when we haven't done anything.
Well like I said before create react app sets everything for us so that it's easy to implement.
And don't worry we're gonna go through this and get this to 100 percent in our exercise.
But for now that's enough talking for me.
I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.